ELEVATOR PITCH:
It’s so great to meet you (persons name), thank you for having me today. :)
Prior to becoming a software developer I was in the dental industry where I started off as a dental assistant and was quickly promoted to running a dental office in less than a year, due to my strong leadership skills, and drive to continuously learn on my own time.
During my time as an office manager I had increased monthly revenue by 50% by implementing best practices and adding insurance coverage tables to every single patient so that we could maximize their insurance benefits as well as know exactly what patient’s out of pocket cost was ahead of time. 
We utilized Dentrix as well as other services, however we were constantly running into problems with our software and our IT guy was constantly having to come out. 
That’s when I then decided to start trying to research and learn how to solve these problems on my own.
I started to love every puzzle or difficult problem I’d run into so much that I just continued to try to research more and more into this career field. That is how I found Boise CodeWorks! :)
During my time at Boise CodeWorks I’ve learned so much and built multiple full stack applications utilizing javascript, the vue.js framework, and mongoDb. My favorite application at the moment is a social media application where musicians can collaborate with other musicians to create awesome music together. I worked with a small team and we utilized scrum/agile practices to make sure we were on task and hitting our sprint goals.
I believe that I would be a great fit for your company due to my skills I’ve developed as a software developer but also I have great interpersonal and leadership skills as well as my passion to continuously learn to better myself and my development skills.
I am very excited to be here, and I really love that you have created a culture where individuality is celebrated and unique strengths are maximized.


Situation - detail the background, provide a context. Where? When?
Task - describe the challenge and expectations. What needed to be done? Why?
Action - Elaborate your specific action. What did you do? How? What tools did you use?
Results - Explain the results: accomplishments, recognition, savings, ect. quantify.

INTERVIEW QUESTIONS: ⭐️ STAR answers
1. Give me an example of a time you faced a conflict while working on a team. How did you handle that? 1. Answer: I was working at my dental office last year, and we were a small practice of only 6 employees. Everything we did impacted each person in one way or another. We had a dental assistant who didn’t fully understand why she would need to input a patient’s coverage table every time they come in. So she just didn’t do it. Balls were getting dropped and there was misinformation to the patient. I went to that employee and asked her why she wasn’t verifying every patient’s insurance and only the new patients. Turns out during her onboarding there was a lot of information that was gone over and she missed that part. She had never done it at previous offices because once insurance was placed into the computer that was it. I just simply explained that people change their benefits all of the time, increase/decrease their plans even if it’s with the same company. We even have some patients who every year their insurance pays more because they have an incentive plan so it’s very important to make sure we get the most updated insurance data every time they come into our practice. From then on she input their insurance data into the coverage table, and it was all just a simple coaching session.
2. Describe a time when you had to interact with a difficult client. What was the situation, and how did you handle it?
    1. answer: When I was working at the dental office I had this patient who had severe periodontal disease, we had informed them of this multiple times, took intra oral photos, radiographs, gum measurements and showed them all of the facts that supported the severeness of their disease. They were not compliant and did not want treatment and they did not have adequate home care either. We had to then get paperwork involved and have the patient sign a refusal of services form so that they were not our liability any longer. We also referred them to a specialist and signed a waiver that we would not be able to continue to treat them unless they prioritized their care. After we did all of this and broke down barriers to fully understand why they were not wanting to be compliant he finally came in for treatment. Unfortunately he did have severe periodontal disease so we were unable to save his teeth, but he finally got the diseased teeth and bacteria out of his mouth so that the rest of him could be healthier, and he was finally out of pain.
3. Describe a time when your team or company was undergoing some change. How did that impact you, and how did you adapt?
    1. answer: During my time at the dental office when I first transitioned to the office manager our dentist had called in a consulting company to try to change the way we did most things. It impacted me because we were trained how to have conversations differently, how to interact with our patients, what types of reports we should be doing instead, and different metrics to watch for. I adapted to the these new policies and strictly tried them for a month first to ensure that I was doing everything I was told to do and then after that first month after trial and error I made tweaks to make it work with our company. I ended up thoroughly enjoying the experience and still utilize that training with everyday life.
4. Tell me about a time you set a goal for yourself. How did you go about ensuring that you would meet your objective?
    1. answer: Whenever there are goals set for me I usually set higher personal goals for myself. I always hold myself to a higher level of accountability. When I was working at Eagle Dental Care our monthly revenue goal after adjustments was $80K. I had set a goal of $90 that way I had wiggle room from my goal in case there was something out of my control that happened. I created a daily amount that was needed to be collected in order to maintain the trajectory of hitting the monthly goal. I then, reviewed the schedule each day, what the estimated revenue would be that day based on what procedures were on the schedule. If we were slightly lower than needed during the morning meeting I would have all of these numbers prepared and review what patients we could recommend teeth whitening, Invisalign, or some cosmetic procedures to boost our numbers for the day. We never had a month except during COVID shut down where we did not meet our goals due to this.
5. Tell me about your proudest professional accomplishment.
    1. answer: My proudest professional accomplishment was when I was working at the dental office prior to me stepping up as office manager, we had pages of outstanding over 90 days late insurance claims that hadn’t been paid on, tons of patients on payment plans, low revenue coming in after adjustments, and no real policies in place to ensure we knew what patient’s out of pocket cost would be. The previous office manager had been there for almost 30 years. When I took over after she left the practice, I took it upon myself to grow our office because if I put my name on something I want it to be quality work. After running this practice over the last two years I increased our revenue by 50% MONTHLY, implemented policies for insurance coverage tables, ensured all patients out of pocket costs were accurate prior to them scheduling treatment, significantly reduced the amount of payment plans we had by implementing CareCredit, and our number of insurance claims that were over 90 days was down to only a couple people. I did that because of hard work, determination, and pride for my work ethic.

PREPARE FOR AN INTERVIEW:
-research the company’s motto, stats, languages
-reach out to people in the company
-practice technical interview skills
-practice my elevator pitch as well as common interview questions

WHITEBOARD CHALLENGE:
-what were the challenges?
	The first challenge was fizzbazz, and the second challenge was finding how many vowels were in a given string.
-Who was your partner?
	Derek was my partner
-How did you feel?
	Even though the first one I didn’t get the right answer I felt really confident because I reiterated what the question was. Wrote down each goal I needed to accomplish throughout the question. Walked through what my thought process was and why I chose to use that method. Talking it through was actually a lot easier than I thought it would be.
-What would you do different?
	I definitely need to continue to working and practicing challenges so that I do become more confident in myself. If somebody asks are you sure? I immediately begin to doubt myself.

5 QUESTIONS FOR EMPLOYER:
-What’s one thing you’re hoping a new person can bring to the role?
-What do the most successful people in this role do that is differently than anyone else?
-What would success look like in the first 90 days?
-What are you hoping I accomplish in the first year?
-How do performance reviews work here?

